+++
title = "About"
+++

We established ourselves as a small group of skilled cybersecurity enthusiasts 
in 2022 and became a club in the Centre for Innovation in 2023.

We are a dedicated group of students who share a strong passion for computer and 
information security. Our primary goal is to introduce students to the 
fascinating field of cybersecurity and address complex challenges through 
CTFs, research projects and collaborations with the industry.

What you can anticipate from our team:

- Active exploration and research in both well-established and cutting-edge 
  areas of cybersecurity, often intersecting with other related fields.
- We focus on solving real-world problems across diverse domains, including 
  binary exploitation, cryptography, file forensics, web server exploitation, 
  hardware exploitation, and more.
- Through informative sessions and Capture The Flag (CTF) events, we aim to 
  assist the student community in embarking on their cybersecurity journey and 
  encouraging them to dive deeper into this exciting domain.

## What is Hacking?

We as a team personally feel that _The Art of Exploitation_ tackles this 
question the best. Hence, we'll be borrowing the author's words for this.

_Borrowing from **The Art Of Exploitation**_

The idea of hacking may conjure stylized images of electronic vandalism, 
espionage, dyed hair, and body piercings. Most people associate hacking with 
breaking the law and assume that everyone who engages in hacking activities is a 
criminal. Granted, there are people out there who use hacking techniques to 
break the law, but hacking isn’t really about that. In fact, hacking is more 
about following the law than breaking it. The essence of hacking is finding 
unintended or overlooked uses for the laws and properties of a given situation 
and then applying them in new and inventive ways to solve a problem — whatever 
it may be.

The following math problem illustrates the essence of hacking:
Use each of the numbers 1, 3, 4, and 6 exactly once with any of the four basic 
math operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) to total 
24. Each number must be used once and only once, and you may define the order of 
operations; for example, 3 * (4 + 6) + 1 = 31 is valid, however incorrect, since
it doesn’t total 24.The rules for this problem are well defined and simple, yet 
the answer eludes many. Like the solution to this problem, hacked solutions 
follow the rules of the system, but they use those rules in counterintuitive 
ways. This gives hackers their edge, allowing them to solve problems in ways 
unimaginable for those confined to conventional thinking and methodologies.

Since the infancy of computers, hackers have been creatively solving problems. 
In the late 1950s, the MIT model railroad club was given a donation of parts, 
mostly old telephone equipment. The club’s members used this equipment to rig up 
a complex system that allowed multiple operators to control different parts of 
the track by dialing in to the appropriate sections. They called this new and 
inventive use of telephone equipment hacking; many people consider this group to
be the original hackers. 

The group moved on to programming on punch cards and ticker tape for early 
computers like the IBM 704 and the TX-0. While others were content with writing 
programs that just solved problems, the early hackers were obsessed with writing
 programs that solved problems well. A new program that could achieve the same 
result as an existing one but used fewer punch cards was considered better, even
 though it did the same thing. The key difference was how the program achieved 
its results — elegance. Being able to reduce the number of punch cards needed 
for a program showed an artistic mastery over the computer. A nicely crafted 
table can hold a vase just as well as a milk crate can, but one sure looks a lot 
better than the other. Early hackers proved that technical problems can have 
artistic solutions, and they thereby transformed programming from a mere 
engineering task into an art form.


Like many other forms of art, hacking was often misunderstood. The few who got 
it formed an informal subculture that remained intensely focused on learning and
 mastering their art. They believed that information should be free and anything
 that stood in the way of that freedom should be circumvented. Such obstructions 
included authority figures, the bureaucracy of college classes, and 
discrimination. In a sea of graduation-driven students, this unofficial group of 
hackers defied conventional goals and instead pursued knowledge itself. This 
drive to continually learn and explore transcended even the conventional 
boundaries drawn by discrimination, evident in the MIT model railroad club’s 
acceptance of 12-year-old Peter Deutsch when he demonstrated his knowledge of 
the TX-0 and his desire to learn. Age, race, gender, appearance, academic 
degrees, and social status were not primary criteria for judging another’s worth 
— not because of a desire for equality, but because of a desire to advance the 
emerging art of hacking.

The original hackers found splendor and elegance in the conventionally dry 
sciences of math and electronics. They saw programming as a form of artistic 
expression and the computer as an instrument of that art. Their desire to 
dissect and understand wasn’t intended to demystify artistic endeavors; it was 
simply a way to achieve a greater appreciation of them. These knowledge driven 
values would eventually be called the Hacker Ethic: the appreciation of logic as
 an art form and the promotion of the free flow of information, surmounting 
conventional boundaries and restrictions for the simple goal of
better understanding the world. 

This is not a new cultural trend; the Pythagoreans in ancient Greece had a 
similar ethic and subculture, despite not owning computers. They saw beauty 
in mathematics and discovered many core concepts in geometry. That thirst for 
knowledge and its beneficial byproducts would continue on through history, from 
the Pythagoreans to Ada Lovelace to Alan Turing to the hackers of the MIT model 
railroad club. Modern hackers like Richard Stallman and Steve Wozniak have 
continued the hacking legacy, bringing us modern operating systems, programming 
languages, personal computers, and many other technologies that we use every day.

# Let's get in touch

Have a project idea or collaboration in mind? [Get in touch](/blog/contacts) and let's make it happen!

